JAMES-3734: Document tools and performance testing result for James (#1005)
apache/james-project: server/apps/distributed-app/docs/modules/ROOT/pages/benchmark/james-benchmark.adoc

= Distributed James Server benchmark
:navtitle: James benchmarks

This document provides benchmark methodology and basic performance of Distributed James as a basis for a James administrator who
can test and evaluate if his Distributed James is performing well.

It includes:

> * A sample Distributed James deployment topology
> * Propose benchmark methodology and base performance result. This aims to help operators quickly identify
> performance issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A sample Distributed James deployment topology
* Propose benchmark methodology 
 * Sample performance results. 
 
 This aims to help operators quickly identify performance issues.
performance issues.
```

== Sample deployment topology

We deploy a sample topology of Distributed James with these following components:

- Apache Cassandra 4 as main database
- OpenDistro 1.13.1 as search engine
- RabbitMQ 3.8.17 as message queue

> - OVH Swift S3 as an object storage

Reviewer: Please specofy servers counts, CPU, memory. Specify also the counts of James PODs, CPU, memory.

should provision thousands of users, thousands of mailboxes and millions of emails.

* Add the permission to execute the script:
----
chmod +x provision.sh
----

* Install postfix (to get the smtp-source command):
----
sudo apt-get install postfix
----

* Run the provision script:
----
./provision.sh
----

After provisioning once, you should remove the Random storing mailet and move on to performance testing phase.

=== Provide performance testing method

We introduce the tailored https://github.com/linagora/james-gatling[James Gatling] which bases on https://gatling.io/[Gatling - Load testing framework]
for performance testing against IMAP/JMAP servers. Other testing method is welcome as long as you feel it is appropriate.

Here are steps to do performance testing with James Gatling:

* Setup James Gatling with `sbt` build tool

* Configure the `Configuration.scala` to point to your Distributed James IMAP/JMAP server(s). For more configuration details, please read
https://github.com/linagora/james-gatling#readme[James Gatling Readme].

* Run the performance testing simulation:
----
$ sbt

> > gatling:testOnly SIMULATION_FQDN

Reviewer: Can we specify this FQDN ?

----

We did provide a lot of simulations. You can have a look and choose the suitable simulation, or you can even customize your simulation also!

Some symbolic simulations we often use:

* IMAP: `org.apache.james.gatling.simulation.imap.PlatformValidationSimulation`
* JMAP draft: `org.apache.james.gatling.simulation.jmap.draft.PlatformValidationSimulation`
* JMAP rfc8621: `org.apache.james.gatling.simulation.jmap.rfc8621.PushPlatformValidationSimulation`

=== Base performance result

A sample IMAP performance testing result (PlatformValidationSimulation):

image::james-imap-base-performance.png[]

> If you get a IMAP performance far below this base performance, you should consider having performance issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you get a IMAP performance far below this base performance, you should consider investigating for performance issues.
```

> gatling:testOnly SIMULATION_FQDN
----

In there: `SIMULATION_FQDN` is fully qualified class name of a performance test simulation.

> We did provide a lot of simulations in `org.apache.james.gatling.simulation` path. You can have a look and choose the suitable simulation, or you can even customize your simulation also!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We did provide a lot of simulations in `org.apache.james.gatling.simulation` path.You can have a look and choose the suitable simulation.  `sbt gatling:testOnly org.apache.james.gatling.simulation.imap.PlatformValidationSimulation` is a good starting point. Or you can even customize your simulation also!
```
